---
title: Home
menu: main
description: "Ruwen Ogien's ethics : now a groundbreaking website !"
weight: -270
draft: true
---

## What is Minimal Ethics?

Minimal ethics is a theory that reduces ethics to a minimum of principles. It provides a simple framework for assessing the morality of our actions. It's opposed to conceptions that see morality "everywhere" and pretend to dictate to everyone how to live their lives. It was developed by the french philosopher Ruwen Ogien in the late 2000s.

## The 3 principles of Minimal Ethics

**Don't do harm to others**. That is, do not cause deliberately and directly unjust harm. This principle requires us not to harm living people and to intervene only if someone tries to harm them. *Detailed explanation\: [Harm principle](/en/page/principe-non-nuisance)*.

**Consider each equally**. In other words, avoid the coarsest forms of discrimination and take into account the important demands of each individual. I's a principle that invites us not to interfere in the lives of others for reasons that they would not accept. *Detailed explanation\: [Equal consideration principle](/en/page/egale-consideration-de-chacun)*.

**What you do to yourself is irrelevant in ethics**. Morality concerns only our relationship with others. Actions that only concern ourselves (our body, our personal choices) have nothing to do with ethics. *Detailed explanation\: [Irrelevance of our relation to ourselves principle](/en/page/indifference-morale-rapport-a-soi)*.

## And that's it?

Yes, it is. Ruwen Ogien's Minimal Ethics lies only in these 3 principles. For a detailed presentation of each principle, click the links in the section above. For any other question, you can [read the F.A.Q](/en/page/faq/), check [the other pages of the website](/en/page/) or the deepening blog posts below.
